this file lists all supported azid-switches for BeSweet v1.5.
beware : switches are case-sensitive.

Usage :
BeSweet -core(..) -ota(..) -azid(..) -shibatch(..) -boost(..) -lame(..) -mp2enc(..) -ac3enc(..) -ogg(..) -split( .. ) -plugin( .. )

Dg.


-g GAIN
-------

Default: 1.0 (or 0db)

This option controls the main (output speaker) gain. The value can be given
in db's, in percentage, or a positive numerical value. 
Examples: -g 5.3, -g 95%, -g -3db, -g 6db.

"-g max" is a special switch for finding maximum gain. (Normalize)
"-g 90%", for example, will normalize a track to 90% of its maximal gain.


--maximize  
----------

Default: omitted

This option will enable a two-pass maximize function of azid. BeSweet
will in the first pass scan the entire file to find the maximum
level. In the second pass the audio will be properly decoded, gaining
it up to 0dB FS.

NOTE: Sometimes when you use this function, the output will still
create downmix overflow warnings. This is normal. It happens because
the signal has touched the 0dB FS, or because of some random value
within the signal has caused it to slightly overload.


-L LRLFE_LEVEL
----------------

Default: 0.0

This controls the downmix-level of the LFE channel into the LR channels.



-l LFE_LEVEL
------------

Default: 0.0

This controls the downmix-level of the LFE channel into the LFE output
speaker. I.e. if this options is set to a non-zero value, the LFE channel
output may be listened to with the -olfe option.


-C LEVEL
--------

Default: BSI

This command option controls the center dowmix level into the LR channels.
Normally, the BSI section contains a field which tells the decoder of how to
downmix the center channel into the LR channels. 

With this option, the user may override the BSI center downmix level and 
specify a custom value. Note that this option is only active when the 
output decode mode (-d) is 2/x.

Allowable values is gain values (either in db's or a positive numerical
value) or BSI. When BSI is selected, the center downmix level gets its value
from the BSI section.


-S LEVEL
--------

Default: BSI

This command option controls the surround dowmix level into the LR channels.
Normally, the BSI section contains a field which tells the decoder of how to
downmix the surround channels into the LR channels. 

With this option, the user may override the BSI surround downmix level and 
specify a custom value. Note that this option is only active when the 
output decode mode (-d) is 2/x and the input stream is either x/1 or x/2.

Allowable values is gain values (either in db's or a positive numerical
value) or BSI. When BSI is selected, the surround downmix level gets its value
from the BSI section.


-c COMPR
--------

Default: none

This option sets the overall dynamic compression in the decoder. This value
is applied to every output speaker.

The bitstream contains information of how much to amplify or attenuate the
sound to decrease the overall dynamic variations (loudness) in the program
contents. Different options exists to choose the wanted dynamic reduction:


    o none	No dynamic compression. The program contents is unchanged.

    o normal	Normal dynamic compression. Normal in-store decoders use
		this as an hardcoded default.

    o light	Light dynamic compression. This is 50% (-6db) of the
		reduction/gain that normal dynamic compression would give.

    o heavy	Heavy dynamic compression. Intended for poor listening
		environment with much background noise.

    o inverse	Dynamic expansion. This is the inverse value of the light
		dynamic compression, i.e. it makes strong sounds stronger
		and weaker sounds weaker.



-s STEREO_MODE
--------------

Default: surround

this option controls what kind of stereo downmix should be applied.

    o stereo	Simple stereo downmix.

    o surround	Dolby surround compatible downmix.

    o surround2	Dolby surround 2 compatible downmix.



-f BOOL
-------

Default: off

This option controls rear-channel filtering. The filter is a 2nd order Butterworth
filter with at -3 dB point at 7 kHz. There are two
major applications for this feature: 

    o To provide proper Pro Logic downmix of the rear channels

    o Phasing-problems in the downmix (washy sound) caused by the rear
      channel downmix into the L R channels.

Usually the rear channels are phased 90 deg in respect of the front channels
prior or inside the ac3 encoder. This is done to avoid phasing problems when
downmixing the program contents to two channels. Some sources do not provide
this shifting, and thus this feature is added.

The filter provides an increasing phase shift according to frequency. It is
90 deg at 7kHz.

NOTE: This option isn't effective when Six-Waves output mode is selected (-6ch).



-n BOOL
-------

Default: false

This selects if the decoder should use dialog normalization reduction. The
normal dialogue level in a program is defined a reference of loudness, 0db.
The BSI info variable "dialogue level" informs how much this dialogue level
is under 0db full-scale (FS) - or how much headroom there is above the
dialogue level before clip.

One of Dolby's intentions with this variable is to ensure that all dialogue
levels are played back with the same volume, regardless of the program's
amount of headroom. It is good to have when the movie you're looking at is
interrupted by a commercial break, where the headroom varies enormously.
(It prevents blowing your ears off when the break comes.)

This feature is implemented by attenuate everything such that all programs
have 31 db headroom, regardless of its original headroom. For a typical
-27db headroom program, this will case a -4db gain.



-about
------

This will print legal & copyright information regarding azid.dll .